use MLA style

* Essay Question:
Examine the psychological dimensions of the characterization in this play. The dynamic between Othello and Iago usurps his marriage and friendship—both Cassio and Desdemona pay the price for Iago’s villainy. How can you read Othello’s psychological characterization? Think about why Othello buys into Iago’s lies and the actions that manifest throughout Acts IV and V.

* Brainstorm:

- Othello is first portrayed as a good man with high morals. he is well respected for his deeds
- Iago is Othello's ancient (good friend?)
- Iago is often referred as 'honest' ('honest Iago') by Othello
-- This means that Othello has great trust in him (until he gets exposed by Emilia)
- Othello is a nice guy, but his tragic flaw is his strong trust in other people
- Ironically, he doesn't trust his own wife
-- Does Othello really love Desdemona?
- Othello trust Iago like a brother
- He wouldn't even listen to Cassio nor any of the women.
- But he did at the end when Emilia revealed everything. (why is that?)
- If I can remember, Othello is clam and speaks very sophisticated (classy)
- He got very mad and lost his temper when Desdemona lost the handkerchief
- From what I know, Othello and Iago were once both good friends when they were fighting for the same army. Then, when war ended and peace came, Othello was promoted to general thanks to his contributions. Then, he appointed Cassio as his 2nd, a newbie, instead of his ancient Iago. (idk if othello was a soldier or the general already)
- They were once friends in war, where they needed to absolutely trust on another.
- This leads to Othello trusting greatly Iago, for they were soldiers of the same army. (get some quotes for when Othello calls Iago 'good', 'honest', or anything good that came from Iago).
- Iago always says things to plant the seed of doubt in Othello's mind. Othello at first would have never imagined that his wife was disloyal. He was even angry at Iago for saying such tings about his wife.
- However, when Othello asked his wife about the handkerchief and his wife kept talking about Cassio and how she wanted him to be back to his position, Othello became angry.
- At this point, Iago's unfounded accusation are becoming a reality.
- Fueled by Iago's projections, Othello can't help by thinking in a way that makes his wife look bad.
- Othello's own naivety made him see the world in a way that is atypical of him.
- From there, Othello is simply projecting the disloyal version of his wife to his real wife.
- This hurts him and Cassio as well since they are both victim of his projections.
- And at the root of this is Iago, who first planted the seeds of doubt but also kept adding oil to the fire, making Desdemona and Cassio look much worser than they are.
- Othello is now blinded by the evil thoughts/suspicions that he has. He is not willing to listen to anybody but himself and Iago.
- When he ask his wife about her 'affair' with Cassio, she keeps saying that she has no clue what Othello is talking about.
- Othello, instead of trusting her, smacks her because he thinks that his wife is disloyal and keeps lying/hiding about all the things she and Cassio 'did'.
- All in all, Othello is projecting the skewed image of his wife and that leads to all the violence and unfair deaths.
- Since Othello is black, he is subject to racism. Despite being a highly ranked general, he is much conscious of the racism around him. Because of this, he is insecure about his race. When we ponders about the reasons for his wife's betrayal, he asks if it's because he is black. Even through he is proud and loves his wife, and also knows that his wife loves him dearly, deep within him he is still skeptical about everyone else.

* Othello themes:
** Racism
** Jealousy
** Revenge
** Sexism
*** Patriarchy
** War
** Isolation
** Love

* Historical Context
  Elizabethan Stage

* Othello's psychological characterization:
  Mental health refers to our conscious and subconscious thoughts. 
  {https://homework.study.com/explanation/what-are-the-four-dimensions-of-psychological-health.html#:~:text=The%20four%20dimensions%20of%20psychological%20health%20include%20mental%2C%20spiritual%2C%20social,meaning%20or%20purpose%20of%20life.}[link]

** Mental
   He is depicted as a calm man who doesn't lose his temper.
** Spiritual
   He is Christian and believes in God. In the first two acts, he refers to heaven and hell a lot.
** Social
   He is a highly ranked general.
** Physical
   He is physically fit since he is praised for his accomplishments.

* Quotes
** I:
   - Iago says how Desdemona's father will divorce him, but Othello is confident in his accomplishments: "My services which I have done the signory shall out-tongue his complaints" (15). He also says that he loves Desdemona: "But that I love the gentle Desdemona" (17).
   - "My parts, my title and my perfect soul shall manifest me rightly." (17)
   - Othello is very confident: "I won his daughter" (27)
   - Desdemona was drawn by his tales: "This to hear would Desdemona seriously incline" (29)
   - "She loved me for the dangers I had pass'd, and I loved her that she did pity them" (31)
   - Othello trust Iago too much: "So please your grace, my ancient, a man he is of honest and trust" (37).
   - Iago's plan: "After some time, to abuse Othello's ear that he is too familiar with his wife. He hath a person and a smooth dispose to be suspected, framed to make women false." (43)
   - Iago on Othello: "The Moor is of a free and open nature, that thinks men honest that but seem to be so, and will so tenderly be led by the nose as asses are." (43)

** II
   - White is wight, meaning a unfortunate creature: "If she be black, and thereto have a wit, she'll find a white that shall her blackness fit" (55). Basically saying that the white person who marries a black person is unfortunate.
   - Othello still loves her: "If after every tempest come such calms, may the winds blow till they climb hills of seas Olympus-high and duck again as low as hell's from heaven!"
   - Iago lies: "The lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard: - first, I must tell thee this - Desdemona is directly in love with him" (5) 
   - "When the blood is made dull with the act of sport, there should be, again to inflame it and to give satiety a fresh appetite, loveliness in favor, sympathy in years, manner and beauties; all which the Moor is defective in: now, for want of these require conveniences, her delicate tenderness will find itself abused, begin to heave the gorge, disrelish and abhor the Moor; very nature will instruct her in it and compel her to some second choice" (59)
   - Iago says: "I put the Moor at least into a jealousy so strong that judgment cannot cure. [...] make the Moor thank me, love me and reward me." (63)
   - "Iago is most honest." (65)
   - "Honest Iago, that look'st dead with grieving, speak, who began this? on thy love, I charge thee." (75)
   - Othello reacting to the scene: "Now, by heaven, my blood begins my safer guider to rule" (77) -> anger is starting to take over my powers of reason.
   - Iago when he explains what happened: "But men are men; the best sometimes forget: through Cassio did some little wrong to him, as men in rage strike those that wish them best, yet surely Cassio, I believe, received form him that fled some strong indignity, which patience could not pass." (79)
   - Then, Othello says: "I know, Iago, thy honesty and love doth mince this matter, making it light to Cassio. Cassio, I love thee, but never more be officer of mine" (79)
   - Cassio on his situation: "Reputation, reputation, reputation! O, I have lost my reputation! I have lost the immortal part of myself, and what remains is bestial. My reputation, Iago, my reputation!" (79)
   - "I'll pour the pestilence into his ear, that she repeals him fof her body's lust; and by how much she tries to do him good, she shall undo her credit with the Moor." (85)

** III
   - "O, that's an honest fellow. Do not doubt, Cassio, but I will have my lord and you again as friendly as you were." (93)
   - Desdemona agreeing to help Cassio: "Assure thee, if I do vow a friendship, I'll perform it to the last article. My lord shall never rest; I'll watch him tame and talk out of patience" (93)
   - When Desdemona meets Othello for the first time after the incident, she asks him to bring back Cassio for his own good. However, Othello does not bring him back yet despite his wife pleading for it (97).
   - "Excellent wretch! Perdition catch my soul, but I do love thee! and when I love thee not, Chaos is come again" (99).
   - Othello first is skeptical of Iago's claim of Cassio's dishonesty: "And when I told thee eh was of my counsel in my whole course of wooing, thou criedst 'Indeed!' and didst contract and purse thy brow together, as if thou then hadst shut up in thy brain some horrible conceit. If thou dost love me, show me thy thought." (99)
   - "And for I know thou'rt full of love nd honesty, and weigh'st thy words before thou givest them breath [...] for such things in a false disloyal knave are tricks of custom, but in a man that's just they are close delations, working from the heart that passion cannot rule." (101)
   - Iago: "Men should be what they seem; or those that be not, would they might seem none!" (101)
   - Iago starts by saying how he thinks that Cassio is honest and that men should be what they seem so that Othello agrees with him and solidify his trust in Iago. Then, when Othello is much pleased, Iago then say how he suspects that there is something going on with Cassio.
   - "O, beware my lord, of jealousy! It is the green-eyed monster which doth mock the meat it feeds on. That cuckold lives in bliss who, certain of his fate, loved not his wronger; but, O, what damned minutes tells he o'er who dotes, yet doubts, suspects, yet strongly loves!" (103)
   - Othello is skeptical about what Iago says: "Think'st thou I'ld make a lie of jealousy, to follow the still changes of the moon, with fresh suspicious? No; to be once in doubt is once to be resolved: exchange me for a goat, when I shall turn the business of my soul to such exsufflicate and blown surmises, matching thy inference" (103).
   - Just because I have some imperfections, there is no reason for me to doubt her: "Nor form mine own weak merits will I draw the smallest fear or doubt of her revolt; for she had eyes, and chose me" (103)
   - Othello thinks highly of Iago, and despite not doubting his wife, he still seeks to prove her disloyalty. Iago's plan of planting thee seeds of doubt have succeeded.From then on, he will try to explain everything from this narrow view of the world.
   - Othello makes his insecurities very clear: "Haply, for I am black and have not those soft parts of conversation that chamberers have, or for I am declined into the vale of years, - yet that's not much - she's gone" (109)
   - For such an important object, he so carelessly drops it and doesn't make sure to recuperate it: "Your napkin is too little: [He puts the handkerchief from him; and it drops] let it alone. Come, I'll go in with you" (109). It seems he expects Desdemona to fetch it. Even when he comes back he does not ask for the napkin, although Iago would probably dismiss him. In other words, Desdemona is the one who is keeping their relationship alive. A relationship goes both ways, but Othello makes no effort in keeping it thriving. Linked to his arrogance.
   - "So I had nothing known. IO, now, for ever farewell the tranquil mind! farewell content! [...] The immortal Jove's dread clamours counterfeit, farewell! Othello's occupation's gone!" (113)
   - After that, he tells Iago that if all the things he said are jokes, then Iago will suffer his wrath.
   - "By the world, I think my wife be honest and think she is not; I think that thou art just and think thou art not. I'll have some proof. Her name, that was as fresh as Dian's visage, is now begrimmed and black as mine own face. If there be cords, or knives, poison or fire, or suffocating streams, I'll not endure it. Would I were satisfied!" (115)
   - Iago then starts inventing shit with no proof whatsoever and saying how he heard Cassio say this and that and how he used the handkerchief to wipe his beard. (117)
   - Desdemona thinks that Othello is distracted by the war\\politics. Because he is under much pressure, she concludes that Othello's reason for losing his temper on small things is because of his stress: "Something, sure, of state, either from venice, or some unhatch'd practice made demonstrable here in Cyprus to him, hath puddled his clear spirit: and in such cases men's nature wrangle with inferior things, though great ones are their object."


* Topic
  main idea: "Othello: the Moor of Venice" by Shakespeare illustrates the psychological dynamics between people of different color.

  thesis: Therefore, this play reveals the consequences of reducing an individual to racial stereotypes.

** central arguments:
   ~ Insecurities
   ~ Arrogance

* Intro
  Hello

* Body

* Conclusion
