* Act 1

** Why doesn't Iago think Cassio deserved to be appointed to lieutenant?
   Cassio is a newcomer and young and has much less experience than Iago, who has fought many wars with Othello. Iago also says that despite having seen him fight in war, he deserves that position. He is jealous that an inferior person is above him.

** What is Iago's reason for continuing to follow Othello?
   To observe him carefully and find the right opportunity to betray him

** What do Roderigo and Iago tell Brabantio about his daughter?
   That she is being stolen by thieves, in other words, Othello. They say that Othello has stolen his daughter.

** What type of imagery does Iago use when describing Othello in Act 1, scene 1?  What type of stereotypes does this imply?
   "An old black ram is topping you white ewe" (1.1.88). "Because we come to do you service and you think we are ruffians, you'll have your daughter covered with a Barbary horse" (1.1.109).
   Iago implies Othello is a vulgar and savage animal that lust on vulnerable white women because of his skin color. He implies that Black people have no morals.

** What does Brabantio accuse Othello of using to make Desdemona fall in love with him?
   Drugs or other trickery: "Judge me the world, if 'tis not gross in sense that thou hast practiced on her with foul charms, abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals that weaken motion" (1.2.73)
   He accuses Othello of drugging her then made her fall in love using pleasure.

** Why is Othello respected by the Duke and senator? What qualities does he have?
   He is a great general with many achievements. He is called calm and collected.

** What warning does Brabantio give to Othello about Desdemona?

** What is Iago supposed to arrange for Roderigo? Do you think that Iago is really concerned with this or is he just using Roderigo?
   Iago is supposed to arrange their marriage because Roderigo loves Desdemona but she loves Othello instead. With his help, Iago claims that he will make them be together, all Roderigo has to do is to listen and follow his instructions. However, in reality, Iago couldn't care less about Roderigo. All he wants is vengeance and he will use any body to succeed, including poor Roderigo.

* Act 2
** What is Iago's plan to shame Cassio? What is Roderigo's role in this?
   Make Cassio lose his temper and embarass himself. Roderigo's role is to provoke Cassio by making him drink and challening him to a dual.

** Whom does Cassio injure?
   Montano, the governor.

** How does Othello respond? What punishment does he give Cassio?
   Someone who cannot control their emotions is not fit to be Othello's lieutenant. Therefore, he strips Cassio of his title.

** Who does Iago suggest Cassio turn to for help? What type of help does Cassio want this person to give to him?
   Desdemona is Othello well loved wife, surely if his own wife ask Othello will change his mind. Iago suggests Cassio to ask Desdemona for her help in restoring his position as Othello's lieutenant.

* Act 3

** What item does Desdemona lose? Who finds it and who do they give it to?
   She loses the handkerchief that Othello gave her on their marriage. Emilia finds it and gives it to Iago, who then plants in Cassio's room for him to find it.

** Who are the people who receive it before it returns to Othello?
   Cassio got it then Othello snatched it back.

** What does Iago imply that Desdemona has done?
   Desdemona has given her love to another man.

** Is Othello grateful for the idea that Iago has given him? What is his attitude about having this knowledge in III. iii.?
   He is because he believes everyone and always calls him honest Iago

** What type of proof does Othello say he will need before he will believe Iago? What type of proof does he accept?
   Empirical proof, which he got when spying on Emilia and Desdemona's conversation.

** What revenge do Othello and Iago plan?
   Kill them?

* Act 4
** What does Othello believe is happening when Iago talks to Cassio?
   I do not know

** Who is really being talked about?
** How do you see the relationship between Bianca and Cassio?
** Does this change any of your perceptions about Cassio's character?
** What does Bianca return to Cassio? How does this support Iago's plan?
** What does Othello do that shocks Ludovico? Why does Ludovico find this behavior surprising for Othello?
** What does Emilia think is the reason for Othello's accusations?
** Why is Roderigo upset with Iago? What does he threaten to do?
** What does Iago ask Roderigo to do? How does Emilia feel about adultery? How does this differ from Desdemona's attitude?

