* Jan 29
  Othello: tragic flaw -> believes others
  Shakespeare's women are well written, full of love
  He asks us what has changed from the Elizabethan era
  Always remember his women characters, they aren't normal
  Othello was hired for his prowess?
  Othello is black, marries a white women in a overly white world

  Motif: there is pattern in light and dark -> consistent references to lightness and blackness
  Constantly reminds of white and black

  Constantly ask yourself: how would you feel if you were Othello

  How does a tragedy works?

  - Characters need to have a tragic flaw
  - Othello -> can change from reader to reader, is a good person inside
  - Desdemona -> doesn't stand up because of love, too much in love
  - Iago -> ?he's just terrible, jealous (he corrupts Othello, he wants to one up Othello)

  **How are Shakespeare's acts are structured**
  i: set up situation
  ii: complicate situation (plot is character driven)
  iii: paradigm shift
  iv: (most important): climax, leads to resolution
  v: resolution

  Othello's love is unwavering.
  The couple's love has nothing to do with their barrier.
  Iago uses sexualized language because he thinks Desdemona is only with Othello because of sex? Iago is jealous.
  Desdemona's character never wavers, she is very in love.
  Why does Othello listens to Iago when his wife is so in love?

  Iago feels that a black man shouldn't be in power, that's why he is so committed to bring down Othello.

  **_HW: Read act 2 and 3_**

* Feb 5
  How do we read Othello? How do we read Shakespeare?

  Said: Misconception.
  Why are these non-European understand each other?
  Think about tone.
  Shakespeare's plays are critiques. Othello critiques racism.
  Performativity.

  Iago tells us what he is thinking, about his plans. He is fully transparent.
  Why does he hate Othello so much? Because of jealousy and power.
  We have to understand his sexualized language toward Othello and his wife.
  Othello is very complicated.
  Iago is jealous of Othello's strength. He is a strong man, but because he is not of European decent, he uses racism to debunk Othello.

  Desdemona's father is involved with Othello's downfall (he is racist as well).

  First scene Iago and Roderigo are discussing about how to destroy Othello.
  What does Iago know about Othello and his wife's internals? He doesn't: he is making shit up.
  Iago treats Othello like his best friend, but we know it's not true.
  Pay attention to how Iago speaks to other people. He is so obsessed with himself that he misses who other people are.

  Othello is constantly misunderstood because of his blackness.
  Constant reference between light and dark, white and black.

  Motifs: Power, jealously, sexuality.

  In the past, it was mostly boys playing the girl roles.
  Desdemona refers Othello by 'My Lord' -> tragic flaw: loves too much and compliant (takes a passive position with her man)
  Othello -> too naive, trusty -> insecure

  Othello's racism is pushing him out of character.
  Iago is a very unsatisfied human being.
  Iago is constantly whispering in Othello's hear to plant the seeds of doubt.

* Feb 12

  Anxiety: racism (Othello is at the center)
  Iago is the cause for the racism

  Microcosm: (small)(space)
  Desdemona is often played as someone very white

  Iago -> jealous and racist (through his language, and his aside conversations with the audience)
  Othello is not good enough for the job, he is not good enough for Desdemona.

  Iago's jealously is tied to social policy. He is not capable enough for Othello's position, and he uses Othello's race to undermine him.

  Emilia's tragic flaw is her allegiance to Iago.
  Iago's tragic flaw is his extreme jealously.

  Othello have no evidence that Cassio hook up with Desdemona.
  Othello become consumed with his own insecurities (tragic flaw), that stems from his microcosm.

  Have racism been fixed?

  Iago is white but evil.
  Othello starts off good and innocent, but becomes part of the evil.
  Usually, white is good and black is evil. But in this play, it's the contrary.

  Othello chooses to not trust Desdemona.
  Does Othello really love Desdemona? Maybe he wants to, but he doesn't.

  Thesis is just a central idea. If the main idea is strong, the thesis statement will come naturally.
  You can merge topics because they overlap.

  In cegep, teachers check is you meet the competencies, not if they liked your essay or not.

  Main idea = interpretation of the text
  Not could, not would, not ambiguity.

  Essay Question: Examine the psychological dimensions of the characterization in this play. The dynamic between Othello and Iago usurps his marriage and friendship—both Cassio and Desdemona pay the price for Iago’s villainy. How can you read Othello’s psychological characterization? Think about why Othello buys into Iago’s lies and the actions that manifest throughout Acts IV and V.

  Main idea: What is a main idea???

  **HM: Draft for intro and 2 body, conclusion if have time**

* Feb 19

  The teacher looks for points, not to remove.
  Need to be aware of the type of the text (Othello is a play)
  Main idea has to be the most important part. If you have trouble with thesis, go back to main idea. The main idea is your interpretation of the text.
  In main ideas, don't use "is" because it goes nowhere. Give verbs that give you power, use "show" and synonyms.

  Use transition words before thesis.

  No "we", "our", "you"

  No indirect subject.

  Sentence form:
  Subject -> noun
  Verb -> active voice (if it's more than one word, it's wrong)
  Object

  Sentence that starts with -ing verbs makes no sense because you don't have a subject.

  ## Orlando

  Period of change.

* Feb 26
  
  *Androgyny:* Form of gender insubordination

  Androgyny is some ways a gentle nuance, a very soft way of saying 'no thank you'
  Sense of liberation

  What is androgyny? It's a type of gender presentation that mixes masculinity and femininity
  Orlando starts a boy.

* March 11

  Orlando is a simple narrator
  Orlando comes back as someone else?
  He changes genders in response to violence -> once woman, doesn't change back

  He ask some existential question: Who am I, where do I come from?
  Orlando challenges gender and time.

  Sleep seems to be Orlando's escape.
  Orlando is a highly complex work (the teacher will fail you if you say otherwise).
  Orlando is horrified by the violence of the outside world.

  This is a feminist novel.
  Gender doesn't define us, but it's the society that does it based on our gender.

* March 18

  Climax: finding love again amidst violence.
  Think about the revolutionary idealogies about the catharsis?

  Woolf focuses on anatomy twice?
  Gender moves beyond ?
  Orlando is capable of love regardless of his gender.


  *Streetcars*

  Blanche's way of speaking is odd.
  Stella doesn't understand Blanche.
  Ektrasis: Use of art to represent an idea.

* April 18

  Content focused/based grading.
  Follow the grading scheme so that the teacher can look for what to add points to. 
  Font is 12. Double space. Page number. Work cited in order.

  Make an exciting introduction so that the teacher is excited to read the paper.
  Write the conclusion once, leave it and come back a day later. Come back to the conclusion first then read the rest.
  Use the active voice (unlike french).
  It/we doesn't start a sentence.
  Don't use 'us'.

  If you are ranting, stop and take a break.
  Don't make it seems like a newscast (in today's world, etc). -> focus on the subject.
  When we are editing, we remove the fillers of the draft.

  *Brokeback Mountain*

  Everyone has a story.
  We can't make an assessment of a person based on how they look.
  The book is tiny but complex.

  Lot of imagery.
  Detailed characterization.
  Settings.
  These three will work together with motifs and ?.

  Life goes on, but Ennis doesn't want to move on because it seems there is something nostalgic holding him back

* April 22

  Ask about the childhood of your gay? Friend.
  More of the times there is a connection about the present and their past.
  There is a lack of space for Ennis, and it is apparent through his father.
  There is a law of father - a patriarchal rule that is immovable.

  Time is not your friend, it takes 20 years for Ennis to realize this.
  Embrace time.

* April 29
  Ennis is not gay. He engages in sexual activity because he likes it.
  He denies being gay.

  Jack on the other hand, is gay. He does sex because he likes Ennis.

  For Ennis, sex is for his desire.
  For jack, sex is a expression of his love for Ennis.

  Being gay means being comfortable with their sexuality.

  Notice what the narrator is showing the readers.

  Ennis discovers himself when he leans that Jack is dead.
  Ennis hides himself behind Alma. -> Alma suffers from this.
