@document.meta
title: orlando
description: 
authors: vincent_liu
categories: 
created: 2024-03-10T12:30:55-0500
updated: 2024-03-18T13:53:25-0500
version: 1.1.1
@end

Its about women.
Probably about sexism.
Women in Edwardian England were seen as possessions.

* Study questions
  ~ What is unusual about the way time flows in Orlando?
  ~ What is the narrator's role in Orlando?
    They narrate the story.
  ~ How is Orlando's relationship with Sasha a strike against conformity?
  ~ What are the benefits of cross-dressing as evidenced in Orlando?
  ~ How do Orlando's long stretches of sleep advance the narrative?
  ~ How does Orlando's reactions to her transformation in Chapter 3 reflect Virginia Woolf's own view of gender and identity?
  ~ How does Orlando's transformation into a woman help her better understand Sasha?
  ~ How are Virginia Woolf's feelings about Victorian culture reflected in Chapters 5 and 6 of Orlando?
  ~ What does the oak tree on Orlando's country property symbolize, and what does Orlando's poem, "The Oak Tree," represent?
  ~ What do light and darkness represent in Orlando?
  ~ Why is Orlando more receptive to a relationship with Shel than the one with Harry?
  ~ How does the narrator's reaction to the year Orlando spends writing reflect the sexism of the Victorian era?
  ~ What is significant about the birth of Orlando's son and his subsequent disappearance from Orlando?
  ~ Explain the end of the novel.
  ~ What are some main ideas you can construct about this novel?

* Orlando Film Notes
  - At the beginning, he is reading a book.
  - "And it could be no doubt about his upbringing, good food, education, ... loneliness and isolation." (1:15)
  - "But when he, 'that is I', came into this world" (1:40). The narrator is narrating their own story?
  - The queen holds a banquet and Orlando is invited to give a speech (I didn't understand shit). The queen gets offended (?) by his words and the king steps in to mitigate the conflict.
  - The queen ask him to be her son? (8:58)
  - The queen looks like she is about to die, and just before her death she gives Orlando the house? She also says to "not wither" and things alike akin to wishing him a good health. (11:23).
  - Orlando says: "You're an interesting person" (11:52). Is he talking to the narrator or to us? 4th wall break?
  - A few months later, Orlando's father dies. "first the queen, now his father" (12:31). The queen has already passed away and this is the scene where his father dies.
  - Orlando is interested in the ambassador's daughter (15:50)
  - She is russian? and she can speak many languages. Her name is Sasha.
