Complicating the realism of this play, a classic post-war Modernist realism, is the character of Blanche Dubois. Blanche speaks in a coded language, often not clear, but poetic, revealing bits and pieces about her ideas on the world and her experiences. She moves between reality, where she is in the quarter, and illusion—her imaginary that she claims helps her, saves her even. You may wish to think about the way that alcohol pushes Blanche into the imaginary, or vice versa even.

Why does Williams complicate Blanche with her obsession with illusion? Is her movement away from reality self-defense or self-destructive?

* Brainstorm
  Blanche is recovering from her trauma

  Her story goes as follows:
  - She had a lover named Allan.
  - She was deeply in loved with him.
  - He was a poetic man.
  - One day, she discovers him sleeping with another man.
  - Then, during a party (ball?) she tells him how disgusting he his.
  - Right after that, Allan suicides.
  - Unable to bear with the reality, Blanche isolates herself in a dream like world.
  - In this illusion, she is still at the party, getting ready for the night.
  - Even at 30 years old, Blanche is still unable to move forward.
  -- She constant seeks other man to fill in the void in her heart.
  -- Her main concern about the world is how she looks.
  --- This is because she is preparing for the ball and she has to look good for Allan.
  -- The music in the background is the one played during the ball.
  -- Her flirting with the young delivery man shows that she yearns for her youth because she is stuck in her younger self.
  -- She baths a lot ?

  The reason why she created a fake world for her to live in ie because she was unable to bear the burden of killing Allan.
  She is unable to face reality, thus she had to escape from it.
  However, it is also because she was alone at the time with no one to help her that she became in such a state.
  Burden can be shared with the people who are close to you in order to share the burden together.
  Blanche was left alone, so her method of surviving the world was to create an illusion to live in.
  When faced with a traumatic experience, some commit suicide and others fall into depression. Blanche however decided to escape reality by creating an illusion.
  She has not matured since she thinks that there are no consequences for her actions. As proved by her long baths, using all the hot water and taking the bathroom for herself for such a long time.
  She has no understanding of the people around her.
  When she was younger, she was silly and a lover. Because of that, when her world stop evolving, she stayed the same love seeker she was and thus went around and made intercourse with other men.
  She doesn't think too much about it.
  Her constant seeking of men is shows that she is in reality a broken person who needs help. She seeks security and protection from the cruel world.
  Men just fought in the war, they are the symbol of justice and strength. It was thanks to those brave soldiers that the West won against Germany in the Second World War.
  Because of that, the men represent stability.
  Blanche, who has been looking for a safe heaven ever since Allan's suicide, tries to take any man by offering her body.
  However, nobody can really satisfy her because she keeps flirting and she is being tossed like an object.
  Nobody has ever succeeded in taking her heart away because the only she truly loves is Allan, but he is long gone.
  She hopes that there will be someone who could make her feel the same way as Allan did.
  But since nobody is Allan, she keeps seeking another man.
  She doesn't think that all the flirting is anything deep.
  Since once again, she lives in her young years when as a beautiful woman there would be not consequences to her actions.
  If there was ever trouble, she could just flirt a little and the problem would be solved.
  Bring this into the adult world, her flirting method becomes a drug that makes her feel good.
  Her method to protect herself is to live in a world where there is no consequence for her actions.
  Living in such a world is meant to be destroyed.
  As the war is over and the country is rebuilding itself, she needs a reality check.
  That is what Stanley does.
  Stanley was a soldier who fought in the war.
  Thus, he lives in the realest reality: that of war.
  When he meets with Blanche, he knows that she would disturb their lives because she lives in a complete different world than him.
  While Stanley is rebuilding his life and working very hard, Blanche lives without a care about the world and surprisingly she is doing more well than him.
  As such, Stanley is jealous and thinks that she doesn't deserve all her wealth.
  Williams makes Blanche like this to show and expose many hidden reality of the world we live in.
  Her movement away from reality is both self-defense and self-destructive.
  It is self-defense because she is unable to bear the burden of killing Allan, so she has to escape/run away from the reality.
  It is also self-destructive because she is unable to move forward, and when someone is unable to move forward, the burden of the regret grows strong and stronger until they are unable to bear it and everything comes crashing down. Her negative feelings that she had buried and hidden away grow stronger as time passes. Having to live her life in lies is very painful.
  When Mitch meets with Blanche, it is always in the dark with a paper lantern covering the light. This is metaphor for the fake face Blanche makes when confronting Mitch. The stories that she tell are all lies, while her true nature is hidden behind it.
  You can't really well in the dark. So the dark room means that even though Blanche is right in front of Mitch, Mitch can never tell who she truly is because he can't get a good look at her.
  Darkness also means loneliness and depression. The darkness of the room can symbolize the void in her heart.
  When things come to light (the lantern is removed and the room literally lightens up), Blanche confesses to her horrible past.
  The unveiling of the lantern is akin to shattering the facade she has put on for a while.
  In this way, she is layed bare with nothing to hide and for Mitch to see her true nature.
  Because of that, Mitch refuses to marry her claiming that she was to dirty to be in the same house as his mother.


